# `.teapie` Folder

|                        |                                                                                          |
|------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Definition**         | A special folder in the file system used for temporary files, caching, and shared functionality. |
| **Naming Convention**  | `.teapie`                                                                                |
| **Purpose**            | Stores user-defined shared functionality across collections and temporary files generated by the TeaPie tool. |
| **Example Usage**      | [Demo .teapie Folder](https://github.com/Kros-sk/TeaPie/blob/master/demo/.teapie)        |

## Location

The `.teapie` folder should be placed in the **root of your repository**, or in one of the parent folders of your TeaPie test collections.

When the `--temp-path` option:

- **Is NOT specified**, TeaPie searches for a `.teapie` folder starting from the collection's path and walking upward. If none is found, one is created in the system's temp directory.
- **Is specified**, that path is treated as the `.teapie` folder location.

To initialize the folder in the appropriate place, use the command:

```sh
teapie init
```

This command will attempt to find the root of your repository (by searching for `.git` folder). Moreover, it also updates your `.gitignore` to exclude temporary folders, keeping your repository clean.

## Structure

The `.teapie` folder typically contains the following subfolders:

- `cache` – Caches necessary data from TeaPie, such as resolved scripts, variables, NuGet packages and so on...
- `reports` – Folder prepared for reports (users may not use it).
- `runs` – *(Planned feature)* This will store detailed request and response artifacts during application runs, organized in a structured way to help users investigate failures more effectively.

## Usage

The main benefit of the `.teapie` folder is centralizing shared functionality. If collections are moved to a different location, references to shared files can remain unchanged.

To reference files inside the `.teapie` folder, use the special `$teapie` wildcard. This placeholder is automatically replaced by the actual path to the folder during execution. Example:

```csharp
#load "$teapie/ClearVariables.csx"
```
